Now in this section of the course, we are
going to focus on Web Development. The
Web Development environment with Spring
MVC. First we're going to go in and
create a brand new application. We'll use
Spring Initializr for that again. It's
going to be a simple Recipe project. Somewhere we can store recipes for meals.
Now it's going to give us a little more
interesting and more realistic data
model to work with and we'll be able to
use that going forward and we're going
to learn more about web development
using Spring MVC and how we process the
data using Spring data. But before we do
that we're going to take a closer look
at the HTTP Protocol. I get a lot of
different skill levels in this course.
Not everybody has a really good grasp on
the inner workings of HTTP and this is
very important. If you have a solid
understanding of the HTTP Protocol,
go and skip this session. It might be too
basic for you. But if you don't, if you
don't know what HTTP is and how the
inner workings, this is an important
section to take. We're going to cover
some of the inner workings of HTTP and
how it relates to web application
development. We're also going to take a
look at developer options in the major
browser. So we're going to examine how
web pages get rendered and what the
developer tools have for us. We're going
to take a look at Developer Tools in
Chrome, Firebug and Fox and Safari Web
Inspector. Next I'm going to show you how
to use an Axis TCPMon tool. This is a
tool that allows you to set up a proxy
and see exactly what's reaching your
server and this is a very handy to
building tool. I use it all the time
because you can look at your web tools
in the browser. That tells you what you
think the browser is sending. This
tool allows you to see exactly what's
getting sent to the browser. Now Spring
Boot has an optional module called
Spring Boot Developer Tools. When used
correctly, these tools can greatly
improve your productivity as a developer. We're also going to take a look at
Spring Boot support for WebJars. This is a handy feature you can use to
include web assets into your project. Relly cool feature. I'm going to
show you how to add bootstrap and jQuery into
our project. I personally love bootstrap. It's crazy easy to make a
great-looking web application using
Bootstrap. That's probably why Bootstrap
is the most popular CSS framework out
there. Then at the end of this, I'm
going to give you a challenging
assignment to Display a List of Recipes.
I'll lay out the assignment and this is
going to allow you to take the skills
you've learned in this course so far and
re-apply them to a completely different
context. But don't worry if you're not
ready to do that yet. In the next video,
I'm going to step through that
assignment step by step and you'll also
have complete copy of the code in
GitHub that you can use for your
reference.